Next, we'll implement the transfer logic.
The standard calls for three transfer from functions,
also different, but for the same purpose.
The safeTransferFrom functions are there to make sure that
the token doesn't get transferred to a smart contract and gets stuck there.
For example, remember our Hello World smart contract?
We can transfer ownership of a token to it,
but then that smart contract wouldn't know what to do with it,
and that token would essentially be lost forever since you cannot reverse that action.
For a real production project,
you should definitely implement the safeTransferFrom functions.
But for now we won't,
and we'll just implement the one transfer form function instead.
Let's go ahead and implement the transferFrom function.
To transfer a token,
all we have to do is update our internal mappings.
The tokenToOwner mapping will now have a different owner for that token,
and we'll have to decrement the balance mapping for the old owner.
Like before, we'll have to emit the transfer events to log that
that particular token changed ownership from old owner to a new one.
We also have to make sure that whoever is calling this method has
permission to transfer that token so no tokens gets stolen.
We'll do that using a modifier function that will implement on top.
We will require that the only way to transfer token for now
is if the caller is the owner of the token that we're trying to transfer.
If the call passes that require statement,
we'll continue as denoted by the underscore.
Now, we can take our modifier and apply to the transferFrom method,
giving it the caller of the function and the token they're trying to transfer.
Great! I think we're now ready for some tests.
Let's make another describe block to group all the tests we do with transfer logic.
In the beforeEach function,
we'll mint a token to user1,
and then have user1 transfer that same token to user2.
Like before, we'll use the owner of method to check that the token now has a new owner.
Like before, we'll also test that
the transfer bench was emitted for the transfer transaction.
This time, we'll also make sure that we're logging all the correct fields.
Let's run our test to see if we can keep going.
Great!
Next step, we'll implement the approved method.
This method allows the owner of a token to give another address approval to transfer it.
This is useful, for example,
when you are entrusting another user,
exchange or a marketplace to do a transfer on your behalf.
For this, we'll need a new mapping to keep track of
what address is approved for a particular token.
In our approved method,
we'll simply update the mapping we just made to
mark address as an approved address for this token.
The only caller that is allowed to set
an approval for a token is the owner for that token.
So, we'll require that condition to be met,
otherwise, the transaction fails.
The standard also requires that we emit the approval event to log this action.
This allows subscribers to these events know when a new approver for a token is assigned.
To implement the getApproved method,
all we have to do is return the value of that mapping for a particular tokenID.
Let's go ahead and change the method signature from external,
meaning that it has to be called outside of this contract,
to public, so we can use it in our hasPermission modifier function we have on top.
Now, we can say that if the caller is an approved caller for that token,
that caller also has permission to transfer the token.
Let's write some more tests,
and just like before,
we'll make a new describe block to test the approval behavior.
I'll make a variable to keep the tokenID will be minting for the describe block.
In the beforeEach function,
will mint the token for user1 and have user1 give
approval to user2 to transfer it at a later time.
Now, we should be able to test that user2 is indeed
at proved for that token by using the getApproved method.
We can also test that since user2 now has permission to transfer token one,
it should be able to do that.
After the transfer, user2 should indeed be the new order for token one.
We can also test the events emitted is the one we expect,
which should be the approval event.
Let's see if we're good in test so far,
so we can keep going.
Awesome! All our test passed.